Cc serverless (#10900)
cockroachdb/docs: cockroachcloud/architecture.md

---
title: CockroachCloud Architecture
summary: Learn more about CockroachCloud architecture
toc: true
---

CockroachCloud is a fully-managed deployment of CockroachDB. This page describes CockroachCloud's architecture and how it relates to CockroachDB.

<div class="filters clearfix">
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="serverless">CockroachCloud Serverless </button>
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="dedicated">CockroachCloud Dedicated</button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

## CockroachCloud Serverless

> CockroachCloud Serverless (beta) is a fully-managed, multi-tenant deployment of CockroachDB. Being familiar with the following concepts will help you understand what our Serverless architecture achieves.

Reviewer: Do we have to emphasize multi-tenant here? That's kind of a negative. I'd say instead that it's a fully-managed, auto-scaling deployment.

### Concepts

Term | Definition
-----|-----------
**Serverless cluster** | A cluster that’s automatically billed and scaled in response to the resources it consumes (as opposed to a dedicated cluster, which is billed and scaled statically).
**Request Unit (RU)** | Request Units represent the compute and I/O resources used by a query. All database operations in CockroachCloud Serverless cost a certain amount of RUs depending on the resources used. For example, a "small read" might cost 1 RU, and a "large read" such as a full table scan with indexes could cost 100 RUs. You can see how many Request Units your cluster has used on the [**Cluster Overview**](serverless-cluster-management.html#view-cluster-overview) page.
**Spend limit** | The maximum amount of money you indicate you want to be billed in a particular billing period for a cluster. The actual amount you are billed is based on the resources used during that billing period. A cluster's budget is allocated across storage and burst performance.

> **Projected usage** | The amount of usage that Cockroach Labs projects a cluster will consume during a billing period. This is important for setting a cluster’s spend limit, because users must leave enough budget to pay for storage for the rest of the billing period.

Reviewer: Nit (to avoid "users"): "because we always reserve enough budget to pay for storage for the rest of the billing period."

> **Baseline performance** | The minimum compute and IO performance that a user can expect from their cluster at all times. This is 100 RUs per second for all Serverless clusters (free and paid). The actual usage of a cluster may be lower than the baseline performance depending on application traffic, because not every application will need 100 RU/s at all times. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Baseline performance** | The minimum compute and I/O performance that a user can expect from their cluster at all times. This is 100 RUs per second for all Serverless clusters (free and paid). The actual usage of a cluster may be lower than the baseline performance depending on application traffic, because not every application will need 100 RU/s at all times. 
```

> **Burst capacity** | Burst capacity is the ability of the Serverless cluster to perform above the baseline. Supporting application traffic that “bursts,” i.e., can fluctuate above baseline traffic, is a key feature of Serverless clusters. Every Serverless cluster starts with a certain amount of burst capacity. If the actual usage of a cluster is lower than the baseline performance, the cluster can “store up” Request Units that can be burst capacity than is allocated for the rest of the month. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Burst capacity** | Burst capacity is the ability of the Serverless cluster to perform above the baseline. Supporting application traffic that “bursts,” i.e., can fluctuate above baseline traffic, is a key feature of Serverless clusters. Every Serverless cluster starts with a certain amount of burst capacity. If the actual usage of a cluster is lower than the baseline performance, the cluster can “store up” Request Units that can be used for burst capacity for the rest of the month. 
```

**Storage** | Disk space for permanently storing data over time. All data in CockroachCloud Serverless (beta) is automatically replicated three times and distributed across Availability Zones to survive outages. Storage is measured in units of GiB-months, which is the amount of data stored multiplied by how long it was stored. Storing 10 GiB for a month and storing 1 GiB for 10 months are both 10 GiB-months. The storage users see in the [Cluster Overview](serverless-cluster-management.html#view-cluster-overview) page is the amount of data before considering the replication multiplier.

### Performance 

> Serverless clusters scale based on your application's workload. Free clusters include 250M RUs with 10M RUs reserved for [burst performance](#concepts) and 5GiB of storage per month. They have a guaranteed baseline performance of 100 RUs per second, or up to 100 QPS. If you set a budget for your cluster, you will have access to additional resources without throttling.

Reviewer: Nit: "5 GiB of storage per month" is ever so slightly weird. A more true (if less satisfying) phrasing is: "Free clusters include 250M RUs with 10M RUs reserved for [burst performance](#concepts) per month, and 5 GiB of storage."

> Depending on your workload, your budget will be used differently. For example, a cluster using very little storage space will have more of its budget available for Request Units, and vice versa. If you hit your budget, your cluster will be throttled down to free-tier performance levels. In this case, you can increase your budget or adjust your workload to stay within budget.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on your workload, your budget will be used differently. For example, a cluster using very little storage space will have more of its budget available for Request Units, and vice versa. If you hit your budget, your cluster will be throttled down to baseline performance levels. If this occurs, you can opt to increase your budget, adjust your workload to stay within the current spend limit, or stay at the baseline performance level until the next month.
```

> Depending on your workload, your budget will be used differently. For example, a cluster using very little storage space will have more of its budget available for Request Units, and vice versa. If you hit your budget, your cluster will be throttled down to baseline performance levels. If this occurs, you can opt to increase your budget, adjust your workload to stay within the current spend limit, or stay at the baseline performance level until the next month.

Reviewer: Nit: I'd say: "a cluster using very little storage space will have more of its budget available for burst performance"

> Storage always gets first priority in the budget since you need to be able to store the data first and foremost. The remainder of the budget is allocated to burst and baseline performance. You can theoretically use up all of your budget for burst performance in the first few minutes of a cluster being created. If this happens, the cluster will be throttled back to the baseline performance and can reaccumulate burst capacity by using fewer RUs.

Reviewer: Nit: budget is actually no longer allocated to baseline performance.

> Serverless clusters also have the ability to scale to zero and consume no resources when there are no active queries. When there are no active queries, you will pay for storage your app is using, but not for Request Units. To avoid wasted resources, CockroachCloud automatically pauses free clusters that are inactive, which is defined by having no connection to the cluster for two consecutive minutes. Once the user attempts to reconnect to the cluster, the cluster will automatically resume. Pausing, resuming, and scaling clusters is a fully-managed process and will not disrupt or affect the user experience. However, it is important for your application to have connection retry logic in the event of node restarts or network disruptions. For more information, see the [Production Checklist](production-checklist.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Serverless clusters also have the ability to scale to zero and consume no resources when there are no active queries. When there are no active queries, you will pay for the storage your app is using, but not for Request Units. To avoid wasted resources, CockroachCloud automatically pauses free clusters that are inactive, which is defined by having no connection to the cluster for two consecutive minutes. Once the user attempts to reconnect to the cluster, the cluster will automatically resume. Pausing, resuming, and scaling clusters is a fully-managed process and will not disrupt or affect the user experience. However, it is important for your application to have connection retry logic in the event of node restarts or network disruptions. For more information, see the [Production Checklist](production-checklist.html).
```

> Serverless clusters also have the ability to scale to zero and consume no resources when there are no active queries. When there are no active queries, you will pay for the storage your app is using, but not for Request Units. To avoid wasted resources, CockroachCloud automatically pauses free clusters that are inactive, which is defined by having no connection to the cluster for two consecutive minutes. Once the user attempts to reconnect to the cluster, the cluster will automatically resume. Pausing, resuming, and scaling clusters is a fully-managed process and will not disrupt or affect the user experience. However, it is important for your application to have connection retry logic in the event of node restarts or network disruptions. For more information, see the [Production Checklist](production-checklist.html).

Reviewer: Don't we automatically pause all clusters that are inactive, not just free clusters?

Author: Seeing only free here: https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/CC-2896 but maybe out of date (pre-cluster unification) info. Will ask for clarification.

Author: Update: all clusters is correct.

### Architecture

> Traffic comes in from the public internet and is routed by the cloud provider’s load balancer to a Kubernetes cluster that hosts CockroachDB. However, unlike a self-hosted CockroachDB cluster where the SQL and KV layers run in the same process, our serverless architecture fully decouples the SQL layer from the KV layer so that both layers run in separate processes running in separate Kubernetes pods.

Reviewer: The average reader probably won't know what we're talking about here, because "SQL Layer" and "KV Layer" are not concepts that we have publicly documented. I'd do one of three things:

1. Remove mention of SQL and KV layers from this doc
2. Explain in this doc what the SQL and KV layers are
3. Include docs on the SQL and KV layers in our [Architecture Overview](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.1/architecture/overview.html). Basically I think the KV layer is just all of the layers that aren't the "SQL Layer."

Author: I think proxy/sql/kv layer info was requested, but will double check with Lakshmi. If I go with option 2, what do you think of adding an abridged version of [this explanation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_QRXGSrqQYktLwyJquv7NMuFut77zRqrS4UXiLA00_w/edit#heading=h.q3oshpx8alwt)?

Author: update on this: going to leave sql and kv out for now and add info as a follow-up pr

> <img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-diagram.jpeg' | relative_url }}" alt="Perf tuning concepts" style="max-width:100%" />

Reviewer: Nit: alt text

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

## CockroachCloud Dedicated

If you need a single-tenant cluster with no shared resources, we recommend CockroachCloud Dedicated. CockroachCloud Dedicated supports single and multi-region clusters in Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform.

### Hardware

> We use the Kubernetes offerings in AWS and GCP (EKS and GKE respectively) to run CockroachCloud offerings. GCP clusters use [N1 standard](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types#n1_machine_types) machine types and [Persistent Disk storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pdspecs). AWS clusters use [M5 instance types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5/#Product_Details) and [Elastic Block Store (EBS)](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/features/). Each single region cluster has a minimum of three nodes spread across three availability zones (AZ) in a cloud provider region. For multi-region clusters, similarly, nodes are spread across three or more AZs in each region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the Kubernetes offerings in AWS and GCP (EKS and GKE respectively) to run CockroachCloud offerings. GCP clusters use [N1 standard](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types#n1_machine_types) machine types and [Persistent Disk storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pdspecs). AWS clusters use [M5 instance types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5/#Product_Details) and [Elastic Block Store (EBS)](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/features/). Each single region cluster has a minimum of three nodes spread across three availability zones (AZ) in a cloud provider region. Multi-region clusters are similar to single-region clusters, with nodes spread across three or more AZs in each region.
```

### Security and Connection

> CockroachCloud Dedicated clusters are single tenant. This means each new cluster gets its own project in GCP or its own account in AWS. No two Dedicated clusters share any resources with each other. Since these clusters are within their own accounts and projects, they are also in a default virtual private cloud (VPC). Users connect to a Dedicated cluster by using a load balancer in front of each region which leads to one connection string per region. Unless you set up [VPC peering](network-authorization.html#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](network-authorization.html#aws-privatelink), your cluster will use TLS 1.2 protocol for inter-node and client-node communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CockroachCloud Dedicated clusters are single tenant. This means each new cluster gets its own project in GCP or its own account in AWS. No two Dedicated clusters share any resources with each other. Since these clusters are within their own accounts and projects, they are also in a default virtual private cloud (VPC). Users connect to a Dedicated cluster by using a load balancer in front of each region which leads to one connection string per region. Unless you set up [VPC peering](network-authorization.html#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](network-authorization.html#aws-privatelink), your cluster will use TLS 1.2 for encrypting inter-node and client-node communication.
```

> CockroachCloud Dedicated clusters are single tenant. This means each new cluster gets its own project in GCP or its own account in AWS. No two Dedicated clusters share any resources with each other. Since these clusters are within their own accounts and projects, they are also in a default virtual private cloud (VPC). Users connect to a Dedicated cluster by using a load balancer in front of each region which leads to one connection string per region. Unless you set up [VPC peering](network-authorization.html#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](network-authorization.html#aws-privatelink), your cluster will use TLS 1.2 protocol for encrypting inter-node and client-node communication.

Reviewer: Nit: elsewhere we write like "single-tenant"

CockroachCloud clusters also use digital certificates for inter-node authentication, [SSL modes](authentication.html#ssl-mode-settings) for node identity verification, and password authentication for client identity verification. See [Authentication](authentication.html) for more details.

[Backups(backups-page.html) are encrypted in S3 and GCS buckets using the cloud provider keys. 

### Multi-region architecture

> <img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/multiregion-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Perf tuning concepts" style="max-width:100%" />

Reviewer: Nit: alt text
